[DOCS-13943] Add a Manage OP with the API or Terraform guide (#38407)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/observability_pipelines/guide/manage_pipelines_with_terraform_and_api.md

---
title: Manage Observability Pipelines with the API or Terraform
description: Learn how to create and update pipelines using the API or Terraform.
disable_toc: false
further_reading:
- link: "/observability_pipelines/set_up_pipelines"
  tag: "documentation"
  text: "Set up a pipeline"
- link: "/api/latest/observability-pipelines/"
  tag: "documentation"
  text: "Observability Pipelines API"
---

## Overview

> If you manage hundreds of clusters per client and need to streamline operations and minimize errors, you can use the API or Terraform to programmatically manage Observability Pipelines. This guide describes how to configure and update your pipelines with the [API](#manage-pipelines-with-the-api) or [Terraform](#manage-pipelines-with-terraform).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you manage many Observability Pipelines deployments and want to reduce manual configuration errors, you can use the API or Terraform to programmatically manage your pipelines. This guide describes how to configure and update your pipelines with the [API](#manage-pipelines-with-the-api) or [Terraform](#manage-pipelines-with-terraform).
```

Reviewer: Minor suggestion for more specificity, and since "streamline" is on the list of discouraged words

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have the following:

- Datadog API and application keys for authentication.<br>**Note**: The API key must be [enabled for Remote Configuration][1].
- The latest version of Terraform installed on your machine.
- Familiarity with [Datadog's Terraform Provider][2] and the available resources.

> - Familiarity with the latest [Observability Pipelines API][3] endpoint specifications and additional configuration parameters.

Reviewer: "Familiarity with" seems vague for a prerequisite. Would it be possible to define specifically what a user needs to be familiar with, or what they need to know how to do?

Author: @taylorchandleryoung is there anything specific we could let users know here?

Author: Updated the section

## Manage pipelines with the API

You can perform CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations with the Observability Pipelines API. This section describes how to use these endpoints in your workflow. For each example request, replace the following placeholders:

- `<PIPELINE_ID>` with the identifier obtained when the pipeline was created
- `<DD_API_KEY>` with your Datadog API key
- `<DD_APP_KEY>` with your Datadog application key

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The example payloads also include sample `id` values (such as `my-processor-group` and `datadog-agent-source`) for sources, processors, and destinations. These are names you choose and can rename to fit your own conventions. The `type` values (such as `datadog_agent`, `filter`, and `datadog_logs`) are fixed and must match a supported component type.

```

Reviewer: Suggesting to add this clarification between the different kinds of placeholders in the requests

### Create a pipeline

> To [create a pipeline][4], construct a JSON payload that defines your pipeline's configuration and then send a `POST` request to the API endpoint. The endpoint accepts a JSON payload defining the pipeline's name and its main components: sources, processors, and destinations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To [create a pipeline][4], send a `POST` request with a JSON payload that defines the pipeline's name and its main components: sources, processors, and destinations.
```

Reviewer: Optional suggestion to remove repetition of `JSON payload`.

Example request:

```bash
curl -X POST "https://api.datadoghq.com/api/v2/remote_config/products/obs_pipelines/pipelines" \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "DD-API-KEY: ${<DD_API_KEY>}" \

> -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: ${<DD_APP_KEY>}" \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-H "DD-API-KEY: <DD_API_KEY>" \
-H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <DD_APP_KEY>" \
```

Reviewer: It's a little unclear what's meant to be a placeholder here — suggesting to go with the style guide's recommendation for placeholder values, although I recognize this is at odds with how it's presented in the API doc. Happy to reconsider if you have any feedback!

Author: Oh good point, your suggestion looks good to me!

-d '{
  "data": {
    "attributes": {
      "config": {
        "destinations": [
          { "id": "datadog-logs-destination", "type": "datadog_logs", "inputs": ["my-processor-group"] }
        ],
        "pipeline_type": "logs",
        "processor_groups": [
          {
            "enabled": true,
            "id": "my-processor-group",
            "include": "service:my-service",
            "inputs": [
              "datadog-agent-source"
            ],
            "processors": [
              { "id": "filter-processor", "enabled": true, "type": "filter", "include": "service:my-service" }
            ]
          }
        ],
        "sources": [
          { "id": "datadog-agent-source", "type": "datadog_agent" }
        ]
      },
      "name": "Main Observability Pipeline"
    },
    "type": "pipelines"
  }
}'
```

### Retrieve a pipeline configuration

> To audit or verify an existing pipeline configuration, send a [`GET` request][5] with the specific pipeline ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To [audit or verify an existing pipeline configuration][5], send a `GET` request with the specific pipeline ID.
```

Reviewer: For consistency with the other requests described in this section

-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "DD-API-KEY: ${<DD_API_KEY>}" \
-H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: ${<DD_APP_KEY>}"
```

### Update an existing pipeline

To [update an existing pipeline's configuration][6], send a `PUT` request with the pipeline changes in the JSON payload.

Example request:

```bash
curl -X PUT "https://api.datadoghq.com/api/v2/remote_config/products/obs_pipelines/pipelines/<PIPELINE_ID>" \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "DD-API-KEY: ${<DD_API_KEY>}" \
-H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: ${<DD_APP_KEY>}" \
-d '{
  "data": {
    "attributes": {
      "name": "Updated Pipeline Name",
      "config": {
        "sources": [
          { "id": "datadog-agent-source", "type": "datadog_agent" }
        ],
        "processors": [
          { "id": "filter-processor", "type": "filter", "include": "service:my-updated-service", "inputs": ["datadog-agent-source"] }
        ],
        "destinations": [
          { "id": "updated-datadog-logs-destination", "type": "datadog_logs", "inputs": ["filter-processor"] }
        ]
      }
    },
    "type": "pipelines"
  }
}'
```

### Delete a pipeline

> To [delete a pipeline][7], send a `DELETE` request to the corresponding endpoint. A successful deletion results in an appropriate status code indicating that the pipeline has been removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To [delete a pipeline][7], send a `DELETE` request to the corresponding endpoint. A successful deletion results in a `204` status code indicating that the pipeline has been removed.
```

-d '{
  "data": {
    "attributes": {
      "config": {
        "destinations": [
          { "id": "datadog-logs-destination", "type": "datadog_logs", "inputs": ["my-processor-group"] }
        ],
        "pipeline_type": "logs",
        "processor_groups": [
          {
            "enabled": true,
            "id": "my-processor-group",
            "include": "service:my-service",
            "inputs": [
              "datadog-agent-source"
            ],
            "processors": [
              { "id": "filter-processor", "enabled": true, "type": "filter", "include": "service:my-service" }
            ]
          }
        ],
        "sources": [
          { "id": "datadog-agent-source", "type": "datadog_agent" }
        ]
      },
      "name": "Main Observability Pipeline"
    },
    "type": "pipelines"
  }
}'
```

### Retrieve a pipeline configuration

To [audit or verify an existing pipeline configuration][6], send a `GET` request with the specific pipeline ID.

Example request:

```bash
curl -X GET "https://api.datadoghq.com/api/v2/remote_config/products/obs_pipelines/pipelines/<PIPELINE_ID>" \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "DD-API-KEY: ${<DD_API_KEY>}" \

> -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: ${<DD_APP_KEY>}"

Author: ```suggestion
-H "DD-API-KEY: <DD_API_KEY>" \
-H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <DD_APP_KEY>"
```

```

### Update an existing pipeline

To [update an existing pipeline's configuration][7], send a `PUT` request with the pipeline changes in the JSON payload.

Example request:

```bash
curl -X PUT "https://api.datadoghq.com/api/v2/remote_config/products/obs_pipelines/pipelines/<PIPELINE_ID>" \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "DD-API-KEY: ${<DD_API_KEY>}" \

> -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: ${<DD_APP_KEY>}" \

Author: ```suggestion
-H "DD-API-KEY: <DD_API_KEY>" \
-H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <DD_APP_KEY>" \
```

-d '{
  "data": {
    "attributes": {
      "name": "Updated Pipeline Name",
      "config": {
        "sources": [
          { "id": "datadog-agent-source", "type": "datadog_agent" }
        ],
        "processors": [
          { "id": "filter-processor", "type": "filter", "include": "service:my-updated-service", "inputs": ["datadog-agent-source"] }
        ],
        "destinations": [
          { "id": "updated-datadog-logs-destination", "type": "datadog_logs", "inputs": ["filter-processor"] }
        ]
      }
    },
    "type": "pipelines"
  }
}'
```

### Delete a pipeline

To [delete a pipeline][8], send a `DELETE` request to the corresponding endpoint. A successful deletion results in a `204` status code indicating that the pipeline has been removed.

**Note**: The delete operation is irreversible. Use this endpoint only when you're certain that the pipeline is no longer needed.

Example request:

```bash
curl -X DELETE "https://api.datadoghq.com/api/v2/remote_config/products/obs_pipelines/pipelines/<PIPELINE_ID>" \
-H "DD-API-KEY: ${<DD_API_KEY>}" \

> -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: ${<DD_APP_KEY>}"

Author: ```suggestion
-H "DD-API-KEY: <DD_API_KEY>" \
-H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <DD_APP_KEY>"
```

- If you are going to use Terraform:
  - Have the latest version of Terraform installed on your machine.
  - Reviewed the [Datadog's Terraform Provider][2] and [Observability Pipelines resource][3].
- If you are going to use the API, reviewed the [Observability Pipelines API][4] endpoint specifications and additional configuration parameters.

## Manage pipelines with the API

You can perform CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations with the Observability Pipelines API. This section describes how to use these endpoints in your workflow. For each example request, replace the following placeholders:

- `<PIPELINE_ID>` with the identifier obtained when the pipeline was created
- `<DD_API_KEY>` with your Datadog API key
- `<DD_APP_KEY>` with your Datadog application key

The example payloads also include sample `id` values (such as `my-processor-group` and `datadog-agent-source`) for sources, processors, and destinations. These are names you choose and can rename to fit your own conventions. The `type` values (such as `datadog_agent`, `filter`, and `datadog_logs`) are fixed and must match a supported component type.

> The example payloads also include sample `id` values (such as `my-processor-group` and `datadog-agent-source`) for sources, processors, and destinations. These are names you choose and can rename to fit your own conventions. The `type` values (such as `datadog_agent`, `filter`, and `datadog_logs`) are fixed and must match a supported component type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Looks like this got duplicated

-d '{
  "data": {
    "attributes": {
      "config": {
        "destinations": [
          { "id": "datadog-logs-destination", "type": "datadog_logs", "inputs": ["my-processor-group"] }
        ],
        "pipeline_type": "logs",
        "processor_groups": [
          {
            "enabled": true,
            "id": "my-processor-group",
            "include": "service:my-service",
            "inputs": [
              "datadog-agent-source"
            ],
            "processors": [
              { "id": "filter-processor", "enabled": true, "type": "filter", "include": "service:my-service" }
            ]
          }
        ],
        "sources": [
          { "id": "datadog-agent-source", "type": "datadog_agent" }
        ]
      },
      "name": "Main Observability Pipeline"
    },
    "type": "pipelines"
  }
}'
```

### Retrieve a pipeline configuration

To [audit or verify an existing pipeline configuration][6], send a `GET` request with the specific pipeline ID.

Example request:

```bash
curl -X GET "https://api.datadoghq.com/api/v2/remote_config/products/obs_pipelines/pipelines/<PIPELINE_ID>" \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "DD-API-KEY: ${<DD_API_KEY>}" \

> -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: ${<DD_APP_KEY>}"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-H "DD-API-KEY: <DD_API_KEY>" \
-H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <DD_APP_KEY>"
```

```

### Update an existing pipeline

To [update an existing pipeline's configuration][7], send a `PUT` request with the pipeline changes in the JSON payload.

Example request:

```bash
curl -X PUT "https://api.datadoghq.com/api/v2/remote_config/products/obs_pipelines/pipelines/<PIPELINE_ID>" \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "DD-API-KEY: ${<DD_API_KEY>}" \

> -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: ${<DD_APP_KEY>}" \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-H "DD-API-KEY: <DD_API_KEY>" \
-H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <DD_APP_KEY>" \
```

-d '{
  "data": {
    "attributes": {
      "name": "Updated Pipeline Name",
      "config": {
        "sources": [
          { "id": "datadog-agent-source", "type": "datadog_agent" }
        ],
        "processors": [
          { "id": "filter-processor", "type": "filter", "include": "service:my-updated-service", "inputs": ["datadog-agent-source"] }
        ],
        "destinations": [
          { "id": "updated-datadog-logs-destination", "type": "datadog_logs", "inputs": ["filter-processor"] }
        ]
      }
    },
    "type": "pipelines"
  }
}'
```

### Delete a pipeline

To [delete a pipeline][8], send a `DELETE` request to the corresponding endpoint. A successful deletion results in a `204` status code indicating that the pipeline has been removed.

**Note**: The delete operation is irreversible. Use this endpoint only when you're certain that the pipeline is no longer needed.

Example request:

```bash
curl -X DELETE "https://api.datadoghq.com/api/v2/remote_config/products/obs_pipelines/pipelines/<PIPELINE_ID>" \
-H "DD-API-KEY: ${<DD_API_KEY>}" \

> -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: ${<DD_APP_KEY>}"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-H "DD-API-KEY: <DD_API_KEY>" \
-H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: <DD_APP_KEY>"
```

```

## Manage pipelines with Terraform

You can use Terraform resources to create and deploy a pipeline.

### Create a pipeline using Terraform

Define a pipeline using the [datadog_observability_pipeline][9] resource. Maintain this file in your version control system to track changes.

> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion

Set the following environment variables before you run Terraform, so that credentials aren't stored in your configuration file:

```shell
export DD_API_KEY=<DD_API_KEY>
export DD_APP_KEY=<DD_APP_KEY>
export DD_HOST={{< region-param key="dd_api" code="true" >}}
```

````

Reviewer: Did a bit of digging into this, and suggesting this update because:

In Terraform, `var.something` (as currently used in the `provider` block) means "look up a value I defined elsewhere in this configuration" — but no such value was defined in the example.

As such, suggesting to remove the API and app key definitions from the `provider` block in favor of exporting them via the Shell command above. This might also prevent users from pasting their keys into a file that might be committed to version control.

Also suggesting to add `DD_HOST`, because without it the provider defaults to the US1 site. Readers on other sites would get authentication errors that point at their keys rather than at the endpoint.

If you _don't_ want to export the variables as shown in this suggestion, another alternative would be to remove their definition entirely, and replace the provider block on lines 163 - 166  with a configuration note as is done in this [other page](https://docs.datadoghq.com/infrastructure/storage_management/amazon_s3/?tab=terraform):

> provider "datadog" {
> \# Configure with environment variables:
> \# DD_API_KEY, DD_APP_KEY, DD_SITE
> }

Author: @taylorchandleryoung

Reviewer 2: agreed it is better practice to not copy paste into the file, was leaning toward quicker setup and testing when I originally set up these docs. Seems straight forward enough to just shift into the shell command so not adding too much complexity, sounds good to me (the configuration note soudns good and is also nice to be consistent)

Author: Made the updates in this commit https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/38407/changes/bdfd09dcb09bf1984c08288c224716d8b8cde564

Example Terraform pipeline configuration:

```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    datadog = {

>       source = "DataDog/datadog"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      source = "DataDog/datadog"
      version = "~> 3.84"
```

Reviewer: Looks like processor groups weren't added until this version — [reference](https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/configuration/set_up_pipelines/?tab=logs#set-up-a-pipeline-with-terraform)

Author: @taylorchandleryoung

Reviewer 2: ahhh, very cool to protect the version, yes please.

Reviewer 2: we defintely want folks using the processor groups over processors too

Author: Made the updates in this commit https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/38407/changes/bdfd09dcb09bf1984c08288c224716d8b8cde564

    }
  }
}

provider "datadog" {
  api_key = var.<DD_API_KEY>
  app_key = var.<DD_APP_KEY>

> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provider "datadog" {}
```

Reviewer: With the shell command exporting the credentials, the provider block can be left empty here, as in this example:
https://docs.datadoghq.com/containers/guide/how-to-import-datadog-resources-into-terraform/#terraformer

Author: @taylorchandleryoung

Reviewer 2: conversation in thread above, makes sense

Author: Made the updates in this commit https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/38407/changes/bdfd09dcb09bf1984c08288c224716d8b8cde564

resource "datadog_observability_pipeline" "main" {
  name = "Main Observability Pipeline"

  config {
    source {
      id = "datadog-agent-source"

      datadog_agent {}
    }

    processor_group {
      id      = "filter-processor"
      enabled = true
      include = "service:my-service"
      inputs  = ["datadog-agent-source"]

      processor {
        id      = "filter-1"
        enabled = true
        include = "service:my-service"

        filter {}
      }
    }

    destination {
      id     = "datadog-logs-destination"
      inputs = ["filter-processor"]

      datadog_logs {}
    }
  }
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Replace `service:my-service` with a search query that matches the logs you want the pipeline to process.

```

Reviewer: Minor suggestion to flag this for users who might copy the example verbatim

Author: Made the update in this commit https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/38407/changes/bdfd09dcb09bf1984c08288c224716d8b8cde564

### Deploy a pipeline with Terraform

After you define a new pipeline configuration or update an existing configuration, run the following Terraform commands to deploy your pipeline configuration:

```bash
terraform init
terraform plan
terraform apply
```

- `terraform init` initializes your working directory.
- `terraform plan` previews the changes being made.
- `terraform apply` applies the changes, which creates or updates your pipeline accordingly.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

After you deploy the configuration, [install the Worker][10] to send data through the pipeline. A pipeline doesn't process data until at least one Worker is running for it.

**Note**: You cannot delete an active pipeline. Stop all Workers for the pipeline before you remove its resource block.

```

Reviewer: - Reference for the first addition about installing the worker: https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/configuration/set_up_pipelines/?tab=logs#set-up-a-pipeline-with-the-api

- Reference for the second addition about stopping workers before deletion:
https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/configuration/set_up_pipelines/?tab=logs#delete-a-pipeline

Author: @taylorchandleryoung

Reviewer 2: Looks good to me, thank you for including the link as well

Author: Made the updates in this commit https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/38407/changes/6d7d6ca5170da2388ac95b6a5dd4e34fdeeefcdf
